Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang warned Tuesday that Beijing and Washington are headed for “conflict and confrontation” if the US doesn't change course, striking a combative tone at a moment when relations between the rivals are at a historic low. In his first news conference since taking office late last year, Qin’s harsh language appeared to defy predictions that China might abandon its aggressive “wolf warrior” diplomacy in favor of more moderate rhetoric as the two countries face off over trade and technology, Taiwan, human rights and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Washington's China policy has “entirely deviated from the rational and sound track”,  Qin told journalists on the sidelines of the annual meeting of China’s rubber-stamp legislature, when leaders lay out their economic and political priorities for the coming year. Speaking on the sidelines of an annual parliament meeting in Beijing, China's Foreign Minister Qin Gang said the Ukraine crisis was being driven by an ‘invisible hand’ and must not be repeated in Asia https://t.co/7Ffd2Y00yQ pic.twitter.com/toHbzkenB1 “If the United States does not hit the brakes, but continues to speed down the wrong path, no amount of guardrails can prevent derailing and there surely will be conflict and confrontation,” said Qin, whose new position is junior to the Communist Party’s senior foreign policy official, Wang Yi. “Such competition is a reckless gamble, with the stakes being the fundamental interests of the two peoples and even the future of humanity.” Qin’s comments echoed remarks made by leader Xi Jinping in a speech Monday to legislators. “Western countries led by the United States have implemented all-round containment, blockade and suppression of China, which has brought unprecedented grave challenges to our nation’s development,” Xi said during a speech to entrepreneurs attending sideline events at the meeting. In the face of that, China must “remain calm, maintain concentration, strive for progress while maintaining stability, take active actions, unite as one, and dare to fight,” he said. US officials have grown increasingly worried about China's expansive political and economic goals and the possibility of war over Taiwan, and many officials in Washington have called for the U.S. to make a bigger effort to counter Chinese influence abroad. Taiwan in the eye of the storm In recent weeks, concerns about Chinese spying on the U.S. and Beijing's influence campaigns there have drawn particular concern, and officials from the two countries have frequently traded accusations. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken canceled a planned visit to Beijing after Washington shot down a suspected Chinese spy balloon that flew over American territory. The massive balloon and its payload, including electronics and optics, have been recovered from the ocean floor and are being analyzed by the FBI. Then last week, China responded with indignation when U.S. officials raised the issue again of whether the COVID-19 pandemic began with a lab leak. The Foreign Ministry accused the US of “politicizing the issue" in an attempt to discredit China. And the two countries have traded angry words over Taiwan as China has stepped up its diplomatic isolation and military harassment of the self-governing island democracy that it claims as its own territory. (Agencies) Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app