Galvanised by the success of their first downing of tools against pension reforms earlier this month, trade unions are calling for new demonstrations across France from Tuesday and threatening more industrial action into February. After their tour de force on 19 January – more than two million took to the streets according to the organisers – France's eight main trade unions have called for "a more massive mobilisation on 31 January". However, Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne has stood firm, saying the raising of the retirement age to 64 in France is "no longer negotiable". Unions are hoping for massive popular wave against the proposals of the "unfair reform" and its key measure: the postponement of the legal retirement age from 62 to 64 years. French unions hail massive turnout for protests against pension reform But after their first successful action mid-January, "the bar has been set high," according to political scientist Dominique Adolfatto, and the unions "can't afford a slip-up". The militant CGT union remain confident, believing turn out will be larger this coming Tuesday, as polls show public opinion a turning against the reform . France's largest CFDT union maintains the French population is "very unfavourable to the project and this opinion is tending to grow" – and for the government to ignore the protests would be a mistake. Se syndiquer est un droit, à la CGT c'est un plus !Pour conquérir de nouveaux droits et dire non à la réforme des retraites, mobilisons-nous le 31 janvier.Télécharger le tract de syndicalisation https://t.co/9dEOYeOAgGSe syndiquer https://t.co/I3l92LbNdM #greve31janvier pic.twitter.com/ADcSkSHD7P Battlelines drawn as fight over French pension reform gathers pace Meanwhile, speaking from her constituency in Calvados, Normandy, Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne deplored "misinformation" on the government's proposals. In an interview with Franceinfo broadcast on Sunday morning, Borne said she was open to a discussion on the use of "education" and "maternity" advantages obtained by women during their careers. However the prime minister has insisted, the postponement of the retirement age from 62 to 64 "is no longer negotiable." Merci à toutes et tous pour ces nombreux échanges sur l’avenir de notre système de retraites.Comme ici à Vire, je continuerai à débattre avec tous ceux qui le souhaitent. Je crois au dialogue : grâce à vos témoignages, nous allons enrichir ce projet avec la majorité. pic.twitter.com/fmJP8nsopZ This Tuesday, more than 200 rallies have been planned across France. In Paris, the strike march will end at Invalides – close to the National Assembly – where the examination of the controversial bill will already have begun. More than 7,000 amendments have been tabled – mainly by the left – which intends to drag out the debates, while the right is trying to raise the stakes. The French right-wing are fully aware that their votes will be crucial to the adoption of the reform. The government also has to deal with its own majority, where many are calling for improvements and some are reluctant to vote for the text. Disruptions are expected on public transport this Tuesday – particularly at the SNCF rail and RATP metro operators – and school closures are also anticipated, with the number of primary school teachers on strike to be known by Monday.  Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app