Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in France on Thursday to demand the withdrawal of the government’s unpopular pension reform. The widespread strike has crippled public transport, closed schools and slowed the energy sector. RFI journalists attended the march in Paris, which the hardline CGT union says attracted some 400,000 demonstrators. Government figures were not immediately available. In the capital clashes broke out between police and demonstrators around the Place de la Bastille. Projectiles were thrown at police who fired tear gas in reponse. Violence was also reported in Lyon and Rennes. From Calais to Nice demonstrators hit pavements to say "no" to increasing the legal retirement age from 62 to 64, a reform that also comes amid widespread social discontent and over rising inflation and the cost of living. While final turnout figures are still not known, it's clear the day of protest has reached a certain magnitude – with unions confident of passing the "million people" threshhold they'd been aiming for. Even before the start of the Paris march, thousands turned out to protest in cities across the country. Figures reported by media show a large mobilisation: 38,000 people in Lyon, 36,000 in Toulouse, 26,000 in Marseille, 25,000 in Nantes, 19,000 in Clermont-Ferrand, 15,000 in Montpellier, 14,000 in Tours, 12,000 in Perpignan and Orleans, 6,500 in Mulhouse and Perigueux. The numbers are equal or higher than demonstrations against the previous pension reform in December 2019, which brought out 806,000 protesters officially, and 1.5 million according to unions. United for the first time in 12 years, the unions want to send a strong message to President Emmanuel Macron, who is determined to pass the reform of the pension system to balance the books and bring France in line with the rest of Europe. According to union figures, some 70 percent of primary school teachers are on strike Thursday and 65 percent of middle and high-school teachers. The government puts the numbers at 42 percent and 65 percent, respectively. Macron, who is in Spain, told a press conference in Madrid the reform was "fair and responsible”, and that France “must carry this out”.“There is a very strong mobilisation of workers rejecting this reform,” Laurent Escure, secretary general of the UNSA education union, told RFI. Thursday is seen as a test by unions, who will consider whether or not to continue strikes and protests. “The question is whether to continue the movement,” Benoit Teste, secretary general of the FSU teachers’ union, told RFI. Long-term strikes involve a lot of commitment, but he insists on the need “to insure the participation of the largest number of people”. A meeting on Thursday evening will determine a new strike day, most likely 26 January. The CGT Mines-Energie union, that represents energy workers, announced that it backs an unlimited strike as of Thursday. If followed, a longer-term strike would mean a drop in electricity production. La CGT petrol union has indicated it wants to stage a 48-hour strike that day, and a 72-hour strike on 6 February. Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app