Australia's defence and foreign ministers have announced they aim to deepen security ties with France and Britain during visits to Europe this week, flagging the Indo-Pacific as a key area of focus. In a statement released this Sunday, the ministers' trip from 30 January to 2 February will comprise Australia-France Foreign and Defence Ministerial Consultations in Paris, and Australia-United Kingdom Ministerial Consultations in London and Portsmouth. Australia has moved to bolster relations in the Pacific as China's influence grows, including a security pact between China and the Solomon Islands struck last year. In France, discussions will focus on "the increasingly challenging strategic environment in the Indo-Pacific and in Europe," while meetings in Britain are set to cover modernising the bilateral relationship, tackling climate change, building economic resilience and global peace and security. Penny Wong and Richard Marles to head to France in effort to heal Aukus rift https://t.co/2ZX4Yumd7e Foreign Minister Penny Wong will also meet with European Union officials in Brussels, while Defence Minister Richard Marles will afterwards travel to the United States to meet with Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin. According to Wong, the “deepening practical cooperation with France in the Indo-Pacific – reflecting the priorities of our partners – is critical to our vision of regional stability." Sinking of submarine deal leaves Franco-US friendship in tatters For his part, Marles said he looked forward to talks in France and the UK on Indo-Pacific security and continued support for Ukraine. AUKUS – the deal between the United States, Britain and Australia to provide Australia with technology for conventionally armed nuclear-powered submarines – will also be discussed while Marles is in the UK. The deal sparked a diplomatic spat between Paris and the three signatories of the AUKUS pact in 2021, as it undercut an agreement between France and Australia for the supply of French diesel-powered submarines to Canberra. Earlier this month, Australia's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the government remained on a "very positive" footing on the AUKUS security pact, despite reports of US concerns that the deal would damage America's industrial base. Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app