Iran said Saturday it had executed a dual Iranian-British national who once worked for its Defense Ministry, despite an international outcry over his death sentence and those of others held amid nationwide protests. British Foreign Secretary James Cleverly said late on Friday Iran must not follow through with the execution - a call echoed by the US State Department. Britain had described the death sentence as politically motivated and called for his release. Mizan said in a Tweet early on Saturday the sentence had been carried out, without saying when. "Alireza Akbari, who was sentenced to death on charges of corruption on earth and extensive action against the country’s internal and external security through espionage for the British government's intelligence service ... was executed,” it said. The report accused Akbari, arrested in 2019, of receiving 1,805,000 euros, 265,000 pounds and $50,000 for spying. In an audio recording purportedly from Akbari and broadcast by BBC Persian on Wednesday, he said he had confessed to crimes he had not committed after extensive torture. Iranian state media broadcast a video on Thursday that they said showed that Akbari played a role in the 2020 assassination of Iran's top nuclear scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, killed in a 2020 attack outside Tehran which authorities blamed at the time on Israel. Iran sentences Belgian aid worker to 40 years in prison, 74 lashes In the video, Akbari did not confess to involvement in the assassination but said a British agent had asked for information about Fakhrizadeh. Iran’s state media often airs purported confessions by suspects in politically charged cases. Reuters could not establish the authenticity of the state media video and audio, or when or where they were recorded. London-Tehran ties have deteriorated in recent months as efforts have stalled to revive Iran's 2015 nuclear pact, to which Britain is a party. Britain has also been critical of the Islamic Republic's violent crackdown on anti-government protests, sparked by the death in custody of a young Iranian-Kurdish woman in September. A British foreign office minister said on Thursday that Britain was actively considering proscribing Iran's Revolutionary Guard as a terrorist organisation but has not reached a final decision. France, Germany summon Iran envoys to protest against executions Iran has issued dozens of death sentences as part of the crackdown on the unrest, executing at least four people. In the audio recording broadcast by BBC Persian, Akbari said he had made false confessions as a result of torture. "With more than 3,500 hours of torture, psychedelic drugs, and physiological and psychological pressure methods, they took away my will. They drove me to the brink of madness ... and forced me to make false confessions by force of arms and death threats," he said. Akbari was a close ally of Ali Shamkhani, now the secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, who was defence minister from 1997 to 2005, when Akbari was his deputy. (Reuters) Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app