Freezing temperatures deepened the misery of survivors of the earthquake in Turkey and Syria that killed more than 17,100 people, as rescuers struggled to save countless people still trapped under rubble. The death toll from Monday's 7.8-magnitude quake is expected to rise sharply as rescue efforts pass the 72-hour mark, beyond which the chance of saving lives diminishes sharply. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday conceded "shortcomings" after criticism of his government's response to the earthquake, one of the deadliest this century. Survivors have been left to scramble for food and shelter, and in some cases stand by helplessly as their relatives called for rescue, only to fall silent under the debris. The World Health Organization is deploying expert teams and flights with medical supplies to Turkey and Syria. Speaking on Wednesday, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a media briefing that it will send a high-level delegation to coordinate its response as well as three flights with medical supplies, one of which is already on its way to Istanbul. "The health needs are tremendous," said Dr Iman Shankiti, the WHO representative for Syria. Hopes are fading of finding survivors stuck under rubble in freezing weather. Officials and medics said 14,014 people had died in Turkey and 3,162 in Syria, bringing the confirmed total to 17,176. WHO officials have previously estimated that the toll may reach more than 20,000 deaths after the disaster. LIVE: Media briefing on global health issues with @DrTedros https://t.co/6Fx4E8gi6v Many thousands are also injured and the Syrian healthcare system was already on its knees after years of war. In Turkey, more than 53,000 people were injured and aftershocks are continuing. EU chief Von der Leyen announces donor conference following Turkey, Syria earthquake  	Race against time for rescuers in Turkey, Syria as quake toll tops 11,200 As well as trauma kits, the WHO added that mental health support was also critical for survivors, as well as supporting other ongoing medical needs. The WHO has released $3 million for its initial response, as many people need support with the "basics of life", such as clean water and shelter in worsening weather conditions. Meanwhile, President Erdogan visited the especially hard-hit Hatay province, where more than 3,300 people died and entire neighbourhoods were destroyed. Residents there have criticised the government's response, saying rescuers were slow to arrive. Erdogan, who faces a tough battle for re-election in May, acknowledged “shortcomings” in the response to Monday's 7.8 magnitude quake, but said the winter weather had been a factor. The earthquake destroyed the runway in Hatay's airport, further disrupting the emergency response. Daily newsletterReceive essential international news every morning Keep up to date with international news by downloading the RFI app